docs/src/content/docs/en/guides/typescript-infrastructure.mdx, before:

---
title: CDK Infrastructure
description: Reference documentation for CDK Infrastructure
---
import { FileTree } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import RunGenerator from '@components/run-generator.astro';
import Link from '@components/link.astro';
import GeneratorParameters from '@components/generator-parameters.astro';
import NxCommands from '@components/nx-commands.astro';
import schema from '../../../../../../packages/nx-plugin/src/infra/app/schema.json';

[AWS CDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/home.html) is a framework for defining cloud infrastructure in code and provisioning it through AWS CloudFormation.

The TypeScript infrastructure generator creates an AWS CDK infrastructure application written in TypeScript. The generated application includes security best practices through [CFN Guard](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cfn-guard/latest/ug/what-is-guard.html) checks.

## Usage

### Generate an Infrastructure Project

You can generate a new infrastructure project in two ways:

<RunGenerator generator="ts#infra" />

### Options

<GeneratorParameters schema={schema} />

## Generator Output

The generator will create the following project structure in the `<directory>/<name>` directory:

<FileTree>

  - src
    - main.ts Application entry point instantiating CDK stacks to deploy
    - stacks CDK Stack definitions
      - application-stack.ts Main application stack
  - cdk.json CDK configuration
  - project.json Project configuration and build targets

</FileTree>

:::tip
Your infrastructure is a TypeScript project, so you can refer to the <Link path="guides/typescript-project">TypeScript project documentation</Link> for more details about their general usage.
:::

## Implementing your CDK Infrastructure

You can start writing your CDK infrastructure inside `src/stacks/application-stack.ts`, for example:

```ts title="src/stacks/application-stack.ts" {9-10}
import * as cdk from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import { Bucket } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-s3'
import { Construct } from 'constructs';

export class ApplicationStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: cdk.StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // Declare your infrastructure here
    new Bucket(this, 'MyBucket');
  }
}
```

### API Infrastructure

If you have used the <Link path="guides/trpc">tRPC API</Link> or <Link path="guides/fastapi">FastAPI</Link> generators to create APIs, you will notice you already have some constructs available in `packages/common/constructs` to deploy them.

If, for example, you created a tRPC API called `my-api`, you can simply import and instantiate the construct to add all necessary infrastructure to deploy it:

```ts title="src/stacks/application-stack.ts" {3, 9-10}
import * as cdk from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import { MyApi } from ':my-scope/common-constructs';

export class ApplicationStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: cdk.StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // Add infrastructure for your API
    new MyApi(this, 'MyApi');
  }
}
```

### Website Infrastructure

If you have used the <Link path="guides/cloudscape-website">CloudScape website</Link> generator, you will notice you already have a construct in `packages/common/constructs` to deploy it. For example:

```ts title="src/stacks/application-stack.ts" {3, 9-10}
import * as cdk from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import { MyWebsite } from ':my-scope/common-constructs';

export class ApplicationStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: cdk.StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // Add infrastructure for your website
    new MyWebsite(this, 'MyWebsite');
  }
}
```

:::warning
It is important to ensure that the website is declared _after_ any API constructs in order for the website <Link path="guides/cloudscape-website#runtime-configuration">Runtime Config</Link> to include all API config.
:::

## Synthesizing your Infrastructure

As part of your `build` target, as well as running the <Link path="guides/typescript-project#building">default compile, lint and test targets</Link>, your infrastructure project is _synthesized_ to CloudFormation. This can also be executed in a standalone fashion, by running the `synth` target:

<NxCommands commands={['run <my-infra>:synth']} />

You will find your synthesized cloud assembly in the root `dist` folder, under `dist/packages/<my-infra-project>/cdk.out`.

## Bootstrapping your AWS Account(s)

If you are deploying a CDK application to an AWS Account for the first time, it will need to be bootstrapped first.

First, ensure that you have [configured credentials for your AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access.html).

Next, you can use the `cdk bootstrap` command:

```bash
npx cdk bootstrap aws://<account-id>/<region>
```

For more details, please refer to the [CDK documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/bootstrapping-env.html).

## Deploying to AWS

After a build, you can deploy your infrastructure to AWS using the `deploy` target.

First, ensure that you have [configured credentials for your AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access.html).

Next, run the deploy target:

<NxCommands commands={['run <my-infra>:deploy --all']} />

:::tip
The above command deploys _all_ stacks defined in `main.ts`. You may wish to target an individual stack, especially if you have configured multiple stages of an application for example:

<NxCommands commands={['run <my-infra>:deploy my-sandbox-stack']} />
:::

## More Information

For more information about CDK, please refer to the [CDK Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/core_concepts.html) and [API Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/aws-construct-library.html).

Commit message:

feat(infra): provide deploy and deploy-ci targets
Specifying a path to a cloud assembly is desired for CI/CD pipelines as it removes the potential for
non-deterministic deployments. However, when developing locally it can cause confusion/friction when
users need to build prior to deploying in order for changes to their CDK code to take effect. We
update the "deploy" command to not specify the cloud assembly to improve the dev experience, but
also provide a "deploy-ci" target which should be used in pipelines.

docs/src/content/docs/en/guides/typescript-infrastructure.mdx, after:

---
title: CDK Infrastructure
description: Reference documentation for CDK Infrastructure
---
import { FileTree } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import RunGenerator from '@components/run-generator.astro';
import Link from '@components/link.astro';
import GeneratorParameters from '@components/generator-parameters.astro';
import NxCommands from '@components/nx-commands.astro';
import schema from '../../../../../../packages/nx-plugin/src/infra/app/schema.json';

[AWS CDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/home.html) is a framework for defining cloud infrastructure in code and provisioning it through AWS CloudFormation.

The TypeScript infrastructure generator creates an AWS CDK infrastructure application written in TypeScript. The generated application includes security best practices through [CFN Guard](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cfn-guard/latest/ug/what-is-guard.html) checks.

## Usage

### Generate an Infrastructure Project

You can generate a new infrastructure project in two ways:

<RunGenerator generator="ts#infra" />

### Options

<GeneratorParameters schema={schema} />

## Generator Output

The generator will create the following project structure in the `<directory>/<name>` directory:

<FileTree>

  - src
    - main.ts Application entry point instantiating CDK stacks to deploy
    - stacks CDK Stack definitions
      - application-stack.ts Main application stack
  - cdk.json CDK configuration
  - project.json Project configuration and build targets

</FileTree>

:::tip
Your infrastructure is a TypeScript project, so you can refer to the <Link path="guides/typescript-project">TypeScript project documentation</Link> for more details about their general usage.
:::

## Implementing your CDK Infrastructure

You can start writing your CDK infrastructure inside `src/stacks/application-stack.ts`, for example:

```ts title="src/stacks/application-stack.ts" {9-10}
import * as cdk from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import { Bucket } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-s3'
import { Construct } from 'constructs';

export class ApplicationStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: cdk.StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // Declare your infrastructure here
    new Bucket(this, 'MyBucket');
  }
}
```

### API Infrastructure

If you have used the <Link path="guides/trpc">tRPC API</Link> or <Link path="guides/fastapi">FastAPI</Link> generators to create APIs, you will notice you already have some constructs available in `packages/common/constructs` to deploy them.

If, for example, you created a tRPC API called `my-api`, you can simply import and instantiate the construct to add all necessary infrastructure to deploy it:

```ts title="src/stacks/application-stack.ts" {3, 9-10}
import * as cdk from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import { MyApi } from ':my-scope/common-constructs';

export class ApplicationStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: cdk.StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // Add infrastructure for your API
    new MyApi(this, 'MyApi');
  }
}
```

### Website Infrastructure

If you have used the <Link path="guides/cloudscape-website">CloudScape website</Link> generator, you will notice you already have a construct in `packages/common/constructs` to deploy it. For example:

```ts title="src/stacks/application-stack.ts" {3, 9-10}
import * as cdk from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import { MyWebsite } from ':my-scope/common-constructs';

export class ApplicationStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props?: cdk.StackProps) {
    super(scope, id, props);

    // Add infrastructure for your website
    new MyWebsite(this, 'MyWebsite');
  }
}
```

:::warning
It is important to ensure that the website is declared _after_ any API constructs in order for the website <Link path="guides/cloudscape-website#runtime-configuration">Runtime Config</Link> to include all API config.
:::

## Synthesizing your Infrastructure

As part of your `build` target, as well as running the <Link path="guides/typescript-project#building">default compile, lint and test targets</Link>, your infrastructure project is _synthesized_ to CloudFormation. This can also be executed in a standalone fashion, by running the `synth` target:

<NxCommands commands={['run <my-infra>:synth']} />

You will find your synthesized cloud assembly in the root `dist` folder, under `dist/packages/<my-infra-project>/cdk.out`.

## Bootstrapping your AWS Account(s)

If you are deploying a CDK application to an AWS Account for the first time, it will need to be bootstrapped first.

First, ensure that you have [configured credentials for your AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access.html).

Next, you can use the `cdk bootstrap` command:

```bash
npx cdk bootstrap aws://<account-id>/<region>
```

For more details, please refer to the [CDK documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/bootstrapping-env.html).

## Deploying to AWS

After a build, you can deploy your infrastructure to AWS using the `deploy` target.

:::caution
Use the `deploy-ci` target if deploying in a CI/CD pipeline. See below for more details.
:::

First, ensure that you have [configured credentials for your AWS account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access.html).

Next, run the deploy target:

<NxCommands commands={['run <my-infra>:deploy --all']} />

:::tip
The above command deploys _all_ stacks defined in `main.ts`. You may wish to target an individual stack, especially if you have configured multiple stages of an application for example:

<NxCommands commands={['run <my-infra>:deploy my-sandbox-stack']} />
:::

## Deploying to AWS in a CI/CD Pipeline

Use the `deploy-ci` target if you are deploying to AWS as part of a CI/CD pipeline.

<NxCommands commands={['run <my-infra>:deploy-ci my-stack']} />

This target differs slightly from the regular `deploy` target in that it ensures pre-synthesized cloud-assembly is deployed, rather than synthesizing on the fly. This helps to avoid potential issues with non-determinism due to changes package versions, ensuring that every pipeline stage deploys using the same cloud-assembly.

## More Information

For more information about CDK, please refer to the [CDK Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/core_concepts.html) and [API Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/aws-construct-library.html).
