docs/src/content/docs/guides/fastapi.mdx, before:

---
title: FastAPI
description: Reference documentation for FastAPI
---

import { FileTree } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import RunGenerator from '../../../components/run-generator.astro';
import GeneratorParameters from '../../../components/generator-parameters.astro';
import NxCommands from '../../../components/nx-commands.astro';
import schema from '../../../../../packages/nx-plugin/src/py/fast-api/schema.json';

[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) is a framework for building APIs in Python.

The FastAPI generator creates a new FastAPI with AWS CDK infrastructure setup. The generated backend uses AWS Lambda for serverless deployment, exposed via an AWS API Gateway HTTP API. It sets up [AWS Lambda Powertools](https://docs.powertools.aws.dev/lambda/python/latest/) for observability, including logging, AWS X-Ray tracing and Cloudwatch Metrics.

## Usage

### Generate a FastAPI

You can generate a new FastAPI in two ways:

<RunGenerator generator="py#fast-api" />

### Options

<GeneratorParameters schema={schema} />

## Generator Output

The generator will create the following project structure in the `<directory>/<api-name>` directory:

<FileTree>

- project.json Project configuration and build targets
- pyproject.toml Python project configuration and dependencies
- \<module_name>
  - \_\_init\_\_.py Module initialisation
  - init.py Sets the up FastAPI app and configures powertools middleware
  - main.py API implementation

</FileTree>

The generator will also create CDK constructs which can be used to deploy your API, which reside in the `packages/common/constructs` directory.

## Implementing your FastAPI

The main API implementation is in `main.py`. This is where you define your API routes and their implementations. Here's an example:

```python
from .init import app, tracer
from pydantic import BaseModel

class Item(BaseModel):
  name: str

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def get_item(item_id: int) -> Item:
    return Item(name=...)

@app.post("/items")
def create_item(item: Item):
    return ...
```

The generator sets up several features automatically:

1. AWS Lambda Powertools integration for observability
2. Error handling middleware
3. Request/response correlation
4. Metrics collection
5. AWS Lambda handler using Mangum

### Observability with AWS Lambda Powertools

#### Logging

The generator configures structured logging using AWS Lambda Powertools. You can access the logger in your route handlers:

```python
from .init import app, logger

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int):
    logger.info("Fetching item", extra={"item_id": item_id})
    return {"item_id": item_id}
```

The logger automatically includes:

- Correlation IDs for request tracing
- Request path and method
- Lambda context information
- Cold start indicators

#### Tracing

AWS X-Ray tracing is configured automatically. You can add custom subsegments to your traces:

```python
from .init import app, tracer

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
@tracer.capture_method
def read_item(item_id: int):
    # Creates a new subsegment
    with tracer.provider.in_subsegment("fetch-item-details"):
        # Your logic here
        return {"item_id": item_id}
```

#### Metrics

CloudWatch metrics are collected automatically for each request. You can add custom metrics:

```python
from .init import app, metrics
from aws_lambda_powertools.metrics import MetricUnit

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int):
    metrics.add_metric(name="ItemViewed", unit=MetricUnit.Count, value=1)
    return {"item_id": item_id}
```

Default metrics include:

- Request counts
- Success/failure counts
- Cold start metrics
- Per-route metrics

### Error Handling

The generator includes comprehensive error handling:

```python
from fastapi import HTTPException

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int):
    if item_id < 0:
        raise HTTPException(status_code=400, detail="Item ID must be positive")
    return {"item_id": item_id}
```

Unhandled exceptions are caught by the middleware and:

1. Log the full exception with stack trace
2. Record a failure metric
3. Return a safe 500 response to the client
4. Preserve the correlation ID

### Streaming

With FastAPI, you can stream a response to the caller with the [`StreamingResponse`](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/reference/responses/?h=streaming#fastapi.responses.StreamingResponse) response type.

#### Infrastructure Changes

Since AWS API Gateway does not support streaming responses, you will need to deploy your FastAPI to a platform which supports this. The simplest option is to use an AWS Lambda Function URL. To achieve this, you can adjust the generated `HttpApi` construct to add an option for streaming, and conditionally instantiate the relevant constructs.

<details>
<summary>Example Changes</summary>

```diff lang="ts"
 import { Construct } from 'constructs';
-import { CfnOutput, Duration } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
+import { CfnOutput, Duration, Stack } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
 import {
   CorsHttpMethod,
   HttpApi as _HttpApi,
@@ -7,7 +7,16 @@ import {
   IHttpRouteAuthorizer,
 } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2';

       },
     });

-    this.api = new _HttpApi(this, id, {
-      corsPreflight: {
-        allowOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
-        allowMethods: [CorsHttpMethod.ANY],
-        allowHeaders: [
-          'authorization',
-          'content-type',
-          'x-amz-content-sha256',
-          'x-amz-date',
-          'x-amz-security-token',
-        ],
-      },
-      defaultAuthorizer: props.defaultAuthorizer,
-    });
+    let apiUrl;
+    if (props.apiType === 'api-gateway') {
+      this.api = new _HttpApi(this, id, {
+        corsPreflight: {
+          allowOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
+          allowMethods: [CorsHttpMethod.ANY],
+          allowHeaders: [
+            'authorization',
+            'content-type',
+            'x-amz-content-sha256',
+            'x-amz-date',
+            'x-amz-security-token',
+          ],
+        },
+        defaultAuthorizer: props.defaultAuthorizer,
+      });

-    this.api.addRoutes({
-      path: '/{proxy+}',
-      methods: [
-        HttpMethod.GET,
-        HttpMethod.DELETE,
-        HttpMethod.POST,
-        HttpMethod.PUT,
-        HttpMethod.PATCH,
-        HttpMethod.HEAD,
-      ],
-      integration: new HttpLambdaIntegration(
-        'RouterIntegration',
-        this.routerFunction,
-      ),
-    });
+      this.api.addRoutes({
+        path: '/{proxy+}',
+        methods: [
+          HttpMethod.GET,
+          HttpMethod.DELETE,
+          HttpMethod.POST,
+          HttpMethod.PUT,
+          HttpMethod.PATCH,
+          HttpMethod.HEAD,
+        ],
+        integration: new HttpLambdaIntegration(
+          'RouterIntegration',
+          this.routerFunction,
+        ),
+      });
+      apiUrl = this.api.url;
+    } else {
+      const stack = Stack.of(this);
+      this.routerFunction.addLayers(
+        LayerVersion.fromLayerVersionArn(
+          this,
+          'LWALayer',
+          `arn:aws:lambda:${stack.region}:753240598075:layer:LambdaAdapterLayerX86:24`,
+        ),
+      );
+      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment('PORT', '8000');
+      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
+        'AWS_LWA_INVOKE_MODE',
+        'response_stream',
+      );
+      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
+        'AWS_LAMBDA_EXEC_WRAPPER',
+        '/opt/bootstrap',
+      );
+      this.routerFunctionUrl = this.routerFunction.addFunctionUrl({
+        authType: FunctionUrlAuthType.AWS_IAM,
+        invokeMode: InvokeMode.RESPONSE_STREAM,
+        cors: {
+          allowedOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
+          allowedHeaders: [
+            'authorization',
+            'content-type',
+            'x-amz-content-sha256',
+            'x-amz-date',
+            'x-amz-security-token',
+          ],
+        },
+      });
+      apiUrl = this.routerFunctionUrl.url;
+    }

-    new CfnOutput(this, `${props.apiName}Url`, { value: this.api.url! });
+    new CfnOutput(this, `${props.apiName}Url`, { value: apiUrl! });

     RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis = {
       ...RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis!,
-      [props.apiName]: this.api.url!,
+      [props.apiName]: apiUrl,
     };
   }

   public grantInvokeAccess(role: IRole) {
-    role.addToPrincipalPolicy(
-      new PolicyStatement({
-        effect: Effect.ALLOW,
-        actions: ['execute-api:Invoke'],
-        resources: [this.api.arnForExecuteApi('*', '/*', '*')],
-      }),
-    );
+    if (this.api) {
+      role.addToPrincipalPolicy(
+        new PolicyStatement({
+          effect: Effect.ALLOW,
+          actions: ['execute-api:Invoke'],
+          resources: [this.api.arnForExecuteApi('*', '/*', '*')],
+        }),
+      );
+    } else if (this.routerFunction) {
+      role.addToPrincipalPolicy(
+        new PolicyStatement({
+          effect: Effect.ALLOW,
+          actions: ['lambda:InvokeFunctionUrl'],
+          resources: [this.routerFunction.functionArn],
+          conditions: {
+            StringEquals: {
+              'lambda:FunctionUrlAuthType': 'AWS_IAM',
+            },
+          },
+        }),
+      );
+    }
   }
 }
```

</details>

After making these changes, make sure you update `packages/common/constructs/src/app/http-apis/<my-api>.ts` to use your new function url option.

#### Implementation

Once you've updated the infrastructure to support streaming, you can implement a streaming API in FastAPI. The API should:

- Return a [`StreamingResponse`](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/reference/responses/?h=streaming#fastapi.responses.StreamingResponse)
- Declare the return type of each response chunk
- Add the OpenAPI vendor extension `x-streaming: true` if you intend to use the [API Connection](/nx-plugin-for-aws/guides/api-connection/react-fastapi).

For example, if you would like to stream a series of JSON objects from your API, you can implement this as follows:

```py /return (StreamingResponse)/ /openapi_extra[^)]*/ /-> (Chunk)/
from pydantic import BaseModel
from fastapi.responses import StreamingResponse

class Chunk(BaseModel):
  message: str
  timestamp: datetime

async def stream_chunks():
  for i in range(0, 100):
    yield Chunk(message=f"This is chunk {i}", timestamp=datetime.now())

@app.get("/stream", openapi_extra={'x-streaming': True})
def my_stream() -> Chunk:
    return StreamingResponse(stream_chunks(), media_type="application/json")
```

#### Consumption

To consume a stream of responses, you can make use of the [API Connection Generator](/nx-plugin-for-aws/guides/api-connection/react-fastapi#consuming-a-stream) which will provide a type-safe method for iterating over your streamed chunks.

## Deploying your FastAPI

The FastAPI generator creates a CDK construct for deploying your API in the `common/constructs` folder. You can use this in a CDK application:

```ts
import { MyApi } from ':my-scope/common-constructs';

export class ExampleStack extends Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string) {
    // Add the api to your stack
    const api = new MyApi(this, 'MyApi');
  }
}
```

This sets up:

1. AWS Lambda function running your FastAPI application
2. API Gateway HTTP API as the function trigger
3. IAM roles and permissions
4. CloudWatch log group
5. X-Ray tracing configuration
6. CloudWatch metrics namespace

### Granting Access

You can use the `grantInvokeAccess` method to grant access to your API:

```ts
api.grantInvokeAccess(myIdentityPool.authenticatedRole);
```

## Local Development

The generator configures a local development server that you can run with:

<NxCommands commands={['run my-api:serve']} />

This starts a local FastAPI development server with:

- Auto-reload on code changes
- Interactive API documentation at `/docs` or `/redoc`
- OpenAPI schema at `/openapi.json`

## Invoking your FastAPI

To invoke your API from a React website, you can use the [`api-connection`](/nx-plugin-for-aws/guides/api-connection/react-fastapi) generator.

Commit message:

feat(api-connection): tanstack query hooks for connecting react to fastapi
This change implements the open-api#ts-hooks generator, which provides factory methods for options
to provide to tanstack query hooks, in a similar manner to tRPC.

This saves the need for users to manage state themselves, and provides parity with tRPC.

By default, PUT/PATCH/POST/DELETE http requests are considered "mutations" and all others "queries".
This behaviour can be overridden with `x-mutation` and `x-query` vendor extensions however.

Similarly to tRPC, if an operation accepts a `cursor` parameter, we consider this a paginated
operation and generate an `infiniteQueryOptions` method alongside the `queryOptions` method. If an
operation is paginated but has a different pagination parameter name, this can be specified using
the `x-cursor` vendor extension.

We support streaming operations in a similar manner to tRPC, where a streaming query hook will
continually have its data updated as chunks are received. Since a single cache entry is shared by
all pages for an infinite query hook, we cannot stream multiple pages at once for a "paginated
streaming" operation as this risks conflicts/race-conditions. We therefore iterate through the whole
stream for each page in this case.
For mutation operations which return a stream, we don't do anything special and just return the
iterator for the user to use if required.

Fixes #96

docs/src/content/docs/guides/fastapi.mdx, after:

---
title: FastAPI
description: Reference documentation for FastAPI
---

import { FileTree } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import RunGenerator from '../../../components/run-generator.astro';
import GeneratorParameters from '../../../components/generator-parameters.astro';
import NxCommands from '../../../components/nx-commands.astro';
import schema from '../../../../../packages/nx-plugin/src/py/fast-api/schema.json';

[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) is a framework for building APIs in Python.

The FastAPI generator creates a new FastAPI with AWS CDK infrastructure setup. The generated backend uses AWS Lambda for serverless deployment, exposed via an AWS API Gateway HTTP API. It sets up [AWS Lambda Powertools](https://docs.powertools.aws.dev/lambda/python/latest/) for observability, including logging, AWS X-Ray tracing and Cloudwatch Metrics.

## Usage

### Generate a FastAPI

You can generate a new FastAPI in two ways:

<RunGenerator generator="py#fast-api" />

### Options

<GeneratorParameters schema={schema} />

## Generator Output

The generator will create the following project structure in the `<directory>/<api-name>` directory:

<FileTree>

- project.json Project configuration and build targets
- pyproject.toml Python project configuration and dependencies
- \<module_name>
  - \_\_init\_\_.py Module initialisation
  - init.py Sets the up FastAPI app and configures powertools middleware
  - main.py API implementation

</FileTree>

The generator will also create CDK constructs which can be used to deploy your API, which reside in the `packages/common/constructs` directory.

## Implementing your FastAPI

The main API implementation is in `main.py`. This is where you define your API routes and their implementations. Here's an example:

```python
from .init import app, tracer
from pydantic import BaseModel

class Item(BaseModel):
  name: str

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def get_item(item_id: int) -> Item:
    return Item(name=...)

@app.post("/items")
def create_item(item: Item):
    return ...
```

The generator sets up several features automatically:

1. AWS Lambda Powertools integration for observability
2. Error handling middleware
3. Request/response correlation
4. Metrics collection
5. AWS Lambda handler using Mangum

### Observability with AWS Lambda Powertools

#### Logging

The generator configures structured logging using AWS Lambda Powertools. You can access the logger in your route handlers:

```python
from .init import app, logger

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int):
    logger.info("Fetching item", extra={"item_id": item_id})
    return {"item_id": item_id}
```

The logger automatically includes:

- Correlation IDs for request tracing
- Request path and method
- Lambda context information
- Cold start indicators

#### Tracing

AWS X-Ray tracing is configured automatically. You can add custom subsegments to your traces:

```python
from .init import app, tracer

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
@tracer.capture_method
def read_item(item_id: int):
    # Creates a new subsegment
    with tracer.provider.in_subsegment("fetch-item-details"):
        # Your logic here
        return {"item_id": item_id}
```

#### Metrics

CloudWatch metrics are collected automatically for each request. You can add custom metrics:

```python
from .init import app, metrics
from aws_lambda_powertools.metrics import MetricUnit

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int):
    metrics.add_metric(name="ItemViewed", unit=MetricUnit.Count, value=1)
    return {"item_id": item_id}
```

Default metrics include:

- Request counts
- Success/failure counts
- Cold start metrics
- Per-route metrics

### Error Handling

The generator includes comprehensive error handling:

```python
from fastapi import HTTPException

@app.get("/items/{item_id}")
def read_item(item_id: int):
    if item_id < 0:
        raise HTTPException(status_code=400, detail="Item ID must be positive")
    return {"item_id": item_id}
```

Unhandled exceptions are caught by the middleware and:

1. Log the full exception with stack trace
2. Record a failure metric
3. Return a safe 500 response to the client
4. Preserve the correlation ID

:::tip
It's recommended to specify response models for your API operations for better code generation if using the `api-connection` generator. [See here for more details](/nx-plugin-for-aws/guides/api-connection/react-fastapi#errors).
:::

### Streaming

With FastAPI, you can stream a response to the caller with the [`StreamingResponse`](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/reference/responses/?h=streaming#fastapi.responses.StreamingResponse) response type.

#### Infrastructure Changes

Since AWS API Gateway does not support streaming responses, you will need to deploy your FastAPI to a platform which supports this. The simplest option is to use an AWS Lambda Function URL. To achieve this, you can adjust the generated `HttpApi` construct to add an option for streaming, and conditionally instantiate the relevant constructs.

<details>
<summary>Example Changes</summary>

```diff lang="ts"
 import { Construct } from 'constructs';
-import { CfnOutput, Duration } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
+import { CfnOutput, Duration, Stack } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
 import {
   CorsHttpMethod,
   HttpApi as _HttpApi,
@@ -7,7 +7,16 @@ import {
   IHttpRouteAuthorizer,
 } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2';

       },
     });

-    this.api = new _HttpApi(this, id, {
-      corsPreflight: {
-        allowOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
-        allowMethods: [CorsHttpMethod.ANY],
-        allowHeaders: [
-          'authorization',
-          'content-type',
-          'x-amz-content-sha256',
-          'x-amz-date',
-          'x-amz-security-token',
-        ],
-      },
-      defaultAuthorizer: props.defaultAuthorizer,
-    });
+    let apiUrl;
+    if (props.apiType === 'api-gateway') {
+      this.api = new _HttpApi(this, id, {
+        corsPreflight: {
+          allowOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
+          allowMethods: [CorsHttpMethod.ANY],
+          allowHeaders: [
+            'authorization',
+            'content-type',
+            'x-amz-content-sha256',
+            'x-amz-date',
+            'x-amz-security-token',
+          ],
+        },
+        defaultAuthorizer: props.defaultAuthorizer,
+      });

-    this.api.addRoutes({
-      path: '/{proxy+}',
-      methods: [
-        HttpMethod.GET,
-        HttpMethod.DELETE,
-        HttpMethod.POST,
-        HttpMethod.PUT,
-        HttpMethod.PATCH,
-        HttpMethod.HEAD,
-      ],
-      integration: new HttpLambdaIntegration(
-        'RouterIntegration',
-        this.routerFunction,
-      ),
-    });
+      this.api.addRoutes({
+        path: '/{proxy+}',
+        methods: [
+          HttpMethod.GET,
+          HttpMethod.DELETE,
+          HttpMethod.POST,
+          HttpMethod.PUT,
+          HttpMethod.PATCH,
+          HttpMethod.HEAD,
+        ],
+        integration: new HttpLambdaIntegration(
+          'RouterIntegration',
+          this.routerFunction,
+        ),
+      });
+      apiUrl = this.api.url;
+    } else {
+      const stack = Stack.of(this);
+      this.routerFunction.addLayers(
+        LayerVersion.fromLayerVersionArn(
+          this,
+          'LWALayer',
+          `arn:aws:lambda:${stack.region}:753240598075:layer:LambdaAdapterLayerX86:24`,
+        ),
+      );
+      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment('PORT', '8000');
+      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
+        'AWS_LWA_INVOKE_MODE',
+        'response_stream',
+      );
+      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
+        'AWS_LAMBDA_EXEC_WRAPPER',
+        '/opt/bootstrap',
+      );
+      this.routerFunctionUrl = this.routerFunction.addFunctionUrl({
+        authType: FunctionUrlAuthType.AWS_IAM,
+        invokeMode: InvokeMode.RESPONSE_STREAM,
+        cors: {
+          allowedOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
+          allowedHeaders: [
+            'authorization',
+            'content-type',
+            'x-amz-content-sha256',
+            'x-amz-date',
+            'x-amz-security-token',
+          ],
+        },
+      });
+      apiUrl = this.routerFunctionUrl.url;
+    }

-    new CfnOutput(this, `${props.apiName}Url`, { value: this.api.url! });
+    new CfnOutput(this, `${props.apiName}Url`, { value: apiUrl! });

     RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis = {
       ...RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis!,
-      [props.apiName]: this.api.url!,
+      [props.apiName]: apiUrl,
     };
   }

   public grantInvokeAccess(role: IRole) {
-    role.addToPrincipalPolicy(
-      new PolicyStatement({
-        effect: Effect.ALLOW,
-        actions: ['execute-api:Invoke'],
-        resources: [this.api.arnForExecuteApi('*', '/*', '*')],
-      }),
-    );
+    if (this.api) {
+      role.addToPrincipalPolicy(
+        new PolicyStatement({
+          effect: Effect.ALLOW,
+          actions: ['execute-api:Invoke'],
+          resources: [this.api.arnForExecuteApi('*', '/*', '*')],
+        }),
+      );
+    } else if (this.routerFunction) {
+      role.addToPrincipalPolicy(
+        new PolicyStatement({
+          effect: Effect.ALLOW,
+          actions: ['lambda:InvokeFunctionUrl'],
+          resources: [this.routerFunction.functionArn],
+          conditions: {
+            StringEquals: {
+              'lambda:FunctionUrlAuthType': 'AWS_IAM',
+            },
+          },
+        }),
+      );
+    }
   }
 }
```

</details>

After making these changes, make sure you update `packages/common/constructs/src/app/http-apis/<my-api>.ts` to use your new function url option.

#### Implementation

Once you've updated the infrastructure to support streaming, you can implement a streaming API in FastAPI. The API should:

- Return a [`StreamingResponse`](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/reference/responses/?h=streaming#fastapi.responses.StreamingResponse)
- Declare the return type of each response chunk
- Add the OpenAPI vendor extension `x-streaming: true` if you intend to use the [API Connection](/nx-plugin-for-aws/guides/api-connection/react-fastapi).

For example, if you would like to stream a series of JSON objects from your API, you can implement this as follows:

```py /return (StreamingResponse)/ /openapi_extra[^)]*/ /-> (Chunk)/
from pydantic import BaseModel
from fastapi.responses import StreamingResponse

class Chunk(BaseModel):
  message: str
  timestamp: datetime

async def stream_chunks():
  for i in range(0, 100):
    yield Chunk(message=f"This is chunk {i}", timestamp=datetime.now())

@app.get("/stream", openapi_extra={'x-streaming': True})
def my_stream() -> Chunk:
    return StreamingResponse(stream_chunks(), media_type="application/json")
```

#### Consumption

To consume a stream of responses, you can make use of the [API Connection Generator](/nx-plugin-for-aws/guides/api-connection/react-fastapi#consuming-a-stream) which will provide a type-safe method for iterating over your streamed chunks.

## Deploying your FastAPI

The FastAPI generator creates a CDK construct for deploying your API in the `common/constructs` folder. You can use this in a CDK application:

```ts
import { MyApi } from ':my-scope/common-constructs';

export class ExampleStack extends Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string) {
    // Add the api to your stack
    const api = new MyApi(this, 'MyApi');
  }
}
```

This sets up:

1. AWS Lambda function running your FastAPI application
2. API Gateway HTTP API as the function trigger
3. IAM roles and permissions
4. CloudWatch log group
5. X-Ray tracing configuration
6. CloudWatch metrics namespace

### Granting Access

You can use the `grantInvokeAccess` method to grant access to your API:

```ts
api.grantInvokeAccess(myIdentityPool.authenticatedRole);
```

## Local Development

The generator configures a local development server that you can run with:

<NxCommands commands={['run my-api:serve']} />

This starts a local FastAPI development server with:

- Auto-reload on code changes
- Interactive API documentation at `/docs` or `/redoc`
- OpenAPI schema at `/openapi.json`

## Invoking your FastAPI

To invoke your API from a React website, you can use the [`api-connection`](/nx-plugin-for-aws/guides/api-connection/react-fastapi) generator.
