docs/src/content/docs/get_started/tutorials/dungeon-game/3.mdx, before:

---
title: AI Dungeon Game
description: A walkthrough of how to build an AI powered dungeon adventure game using the @aws/nx-plugin.
---

import { Aside, Code, FileTree, Steps, Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import Drawer from '../../../../../components/drawer.astro';
import RunGenerator from '../../../../../components/run-generator.astro';
import NxCommands from '../../../../../components/nx-commands.astro';
import InstallCommand from '../../../../../components/install-command.astro';
import dungeonAdventureArchitecturePng from '../../../assets/dungeon-game-architecture.png'
import dungeonAdventureErPng from '../../../assets/dungeon-adventure-er.png'
import baselineWebsitePng from '../../../assets/baseline-website.png'
import baselineGamePng from '../../../assets/baseline-game.png'
import nxGraphPng from '../../../assets/nx-graph.png'
import gameSelectPng from '../../../assets/game-select.png'
import gameConversationPng from '../../../assets/game-conversation.png'

## Module 3: Story API implementation

<Aside type="caution">
Ensure you have granted access to the **Anthropic Claude 3.5 Sonnet v2** model via the steps outlined in [this guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-access-modify.html).
</Aside>

The StoryApi comprises of a single API `generate_story` which given a `Game` and a list of `Action`'s for context, will progress a story. This API will be implemented as a streaming API in Python/FastAPI and will additionally demonstrate how changes can be made to the generated code to be fit for purpose.

### API implementation

To create our API, we first need to install a couple of additional dependencies.

- `boto3` will be used to call Amazon Bedrock;
- `uvicorn` will be used to start our API when used in conjunction with the [Lambda Web Adapter (LWA)](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-web-adapter).
- `copyfiles` is an npm dependency that we will need to support cross-platform copying of files when updating our `bundle` task.

To install these dependencies, run the following commands:

<NxCommands commands={["run dungeon_adventure.story_api:add --args boto3 uvicorn"]} />
<InstallCommand pkg="copyfiles" dev />

Now let's replace the contents of `packages/story_api/story_api/main.py` as follows:

```python
// packages/story_api/story_api/main.py
import json

from boto3 import client
from fastapi.responses import PlainTextResponse, StreamingResponse
from pydantic import BaseModel

from .init import app, lambda_handler

handler = lambda_handler

bedrock = client('bedrock-runtime')

class Action(BaseModel):
    role: str
    content: str

class StoryRequest(BaseModel):
    genre: str
    playerName: str
    actions: list[Action]

async def bedrock_stream(request: StoryRequest):
    messages = [
        {"role": "user", "content": "Continue or create a new story..."}
    ]

    for action in request.actions:
        messages.append({"role": action.role, "content": action.content})

    response = bedrock.invoke_model_with_response_stream(
        modelId='anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0',
        body=json.dumps({
            "system":f"""
            You are running an AI text adventure game in the {request.genre} genre.
            Player: {request.playerName}. Return less than 200 characters of text.
            """,
            "messages": messages,
            "max_tokens": 1000,
            "temperature": 0.7,
            "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31"
        })
    )

    stream = response.get('body')
    if stream:
        for event in stream:
            chunk = event.get('chunk')
            if chunk:
                message = json.loads(chunk.get("bytes").decode())
                if message['type'] == "content_block_delta":
                    yield message['delta']['text'] or ""
                elif message['type'] == "message_stop":
                    yield "\n"

@app.post("/story/generate",
          openapi_extra={'x-streaming': True},
          response_class=PlainTextResponse)
def generate_story(request: StoryRequest) -> str:
    return StreamingResponse(bedrock_stream(request), media_type="text/plain")
```

Analyzing the code above:

- We use the `x-streaming` setting to indicate that this is a streaming API when we eventually generate our client SDK. This will allow us to consume this API in a streaming manner whilst maintaining type-safety!
- Our API simply returns a stream of text as defined by both the `media_type="text/plain"` and the `response_class=PlainTextResponse`

### Infrastructure

The [Infrastructure we set up previously](/nx-plugin-for-aws/get_started/tutorials/dungeon-game/1#game-ui-infrastructure) assumes that all APIs have an API Gateway integrating with a Lambda. For our `story_api` we actually don't want to use API Gateway as this does not support streaming repsonses. Instead, we will use a [Lambda Function URL configured with response streaming](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-response-streaming.html).

To support this, we are going to first update our CDK constructs as follows:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="http-api.ts">
```typescript
// packages/common/constructs/src/core/http-api.ts
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import { CfnOutput, Duration, Stack } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import {
  CorsHttpMethod,
  HttpApi as _HttpApi,
  HttpMethod,
  IHttpRouteAuthorizer,
} from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2';
import { HttpLambdaIntegration } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2-integrations';
import {
  Code,
  Function,
  FunctionUrl,
  FunctionUrlAuthType,
  InvokeMode,
  LayerVersion,
  Runtime,
  Tracing,
} from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda';
import { Grant, IGrantable } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-iam';
import { RuntimeConfig } from './runtime-config.js';

export interface HttpApiProps {
  readonly apiName: string;
  readonly handler: string;
  readonly handlerFilePath: string;
  readonly runtime: Runtime;
  readonly defaultAuthorizer: IHttpRouteAuthorizer;
  readonly apiType?: 'api-gateway' | 'function-url-streaming';
  readonly allowedOrigins?: string[];
}

export class HttpApi extends Construct {
  public readonly api?: _HttpApi;
  public readonly routerFunctionUrl?: FunctionUrl;
  public readonly routerFunction: Function;

  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props: HttpApiProps) {
    super(scope, id);

    this.routerFunction = new Function(this, `${id}Handler`, {
      timeout: Duration.seconds(30),
      runtime: props.runtime,
      handler: props.handler,
      code: Code.fromAsset(props.handlerFilePath),
      tracing: Tracing.ACTIVE,
      environment: {
        AWS_CONNECTION_REUSE_ENABLED: '1',
      },
    });

    let apiUrl;
    if (props.apiType === 'function-url-streaming') {
      const stack = Stack.of(this);
      this.routerFunction.addLayers(
        LayerVersion.fromLayerVersionArn(
          this,
          'LWALayer',
          `arn:aws:lambda:${stack.region}:753240598075:layer:LambdaAdapterLayerX86:24`,
        ),
      );
      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment('PORT', '8000');
      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
        'AWS_LWA_INVOKE_MODE',
        'response_stream',
      );
      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
        'AWS_LAMBDA_EXEC_WRAPPER',
        '/opt/bootstrap',
      );
      this.routerFunctionUrl = this.routerFunction.addFunctionUrl({
        authType: FunctionUrlAuthType.AWS_IAM,
        invokeMode: InvokeMode.RESPONSE_STREAM,
        cors: {
          allowedOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
          allowedHeaders: [
            'authorization',
            'content-type',
            'x-amz-content-sha256',
            'x-amz-date',
            'x-amz-security-token',
          ],
        },
      });
      apiUrl = this.routerFunctionUrl.url;
    } else {
      this.api = new _HttpApi(this, id, {
        corsPreflight: {
          allowOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
          allowMethods: [CorsHttpMethod.ANY],
          allowHeaders: [
            'authorization',
            'content-type',
            'x-amz-content-sha256',
            'x-amz-date',
            'x-amz-security-token',
          ],
        },
        defaultAuthorizer: props.defaultAuthorizer,
      });

      this.api.addRoutes({
        path: '/{proxy+}',
        methods: [
          HttpMethod.GET,
          HttpMethod.DELETE,
          HttpMethod.POST,
          HttpMethod.PUT,
          HttpMethod.PATCH,
          HttpMethod.HEAD,
        ],
        integration: new HttpLambdaIntegration(
          'RouterIntegration',
          this.routerFunction,
        ),
      });
      apiUrl = this.api.url;
    }

    new CfnOutput(this, `${props.apiName}Url`, { value: apiUrl! });

    RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis = {
      ...RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis!,
      [props.apiName]: apiUrl,
    };
  }

  public grantInvokeAccess(grantee: IGrantable) {
    if (this.api) {
      Grant.addToPrincipal({
        grantee,
        actions: ['execute-api:Invoke'],
        resourceArns: [this.api.arnForExecuteApi('*', '/*', '*')],
      });
    } else if (this.routerFunction) {
      Grant.addToPrincipal({
        grantee,
        actions: ['lambda:InvokeFunctionUrl'],
        resourceArns: [this.routerFunction.functionArn],
        conditions: {
          StringEquals: {
            'lambda:FunctionUrlAuthType': 'AWS_IAM',
          },
        },
      });
    }
  }
}
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="story-api.ts">
```diff lang="typescript"
// packages/common/constructs/src/app/http-apis/story-api.ts
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import * as url from 'url';
import { HttpApi } from '../../core/http-api.js';
import { HttpIamAuthorizer } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2-authorizers';
import { Runtime } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda';
+import { Effect, PolicyStatement } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-iam';

export class StoryApi extends HttpApi {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string) {
    super(scope, id, {
      defaultAuthorizer: new HttpIamAuthorizer(),
      apiName: 'StoryApi',
      runtime: Runtime.PYTHON_3_12,
-      handler: 'story_api.main.handler',
+      apiType: 'function-url-streaming',
+      handler: 'run.sh',
      handlerFilePath: url.fileURLToPath(
        new URL(
          '../../../../../../dist/packages/story_api/bundle',
          import.meta.url,
        ),
      ),
    });
+
+    this.routerFunction.addToRolePolicy(
+      new PolicyStatement({
+        effect: Effect.ALLOW,
+        actions: ['bedrock:InvokeModelWithResponseStream'],
+        resources: [
+          'arn:aws:bedrock:*::foundation-model/anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0',
+        ],
+      }),
+    );
  }
}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now we will update the `story_api` to support the [Lambda Web Adapter](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-web-adapter) deployment.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="run.sh">
```bash
// packages/story_api/run.sh
#!/bin/bash

PATH=$PATH:$LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT/bin \
    PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/opt/python:$LAMBDA_RUNTIME_DIR \
    exec python -m uvicorn --port=$PORT story_api.main:app
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="project.json">
```diff lang="json"
// packages/story_api/project.json
{
  "name": "dungeon_adventure.story_api",
  "$schema": "../../node_modules/nx/schemas/project-schema.json",
  "projectType": "application",
  "sourceRoot": "packages/story_api/story_api",
  "targets": {
    ...
    "bundle": {
      "cache": true,
      "executor": "nx:run-commands",
      "outputs": ["{workspaceRoot}/dist/packages/story_api/bundle"],
      "options": {
        "commands": [
          "uv export --frozen --no-dev --no-editable --project story_api -o dist/packages/story_api/bundle/requirements.txt",
          "uv pip install -n --no-installer-metadata --no-compile-bytecode --python-platform x86_64-manylinux2014 --python `uv python pin` --target dist/packages/story_api/bundle -r dist/packages/story_api/bundle/requirements.txt",
+          "copyfiles -f packages/story_api/run.sh dist/packages/story_api/bundle"
        ],
        "parallel": false
      },
      "dependsOn": ["compile"]
    },
    ...
  }
}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Deployment and testing

First, lets build the codebase:

<NxCommands commands={['run-many --target build --all']} />

<Aside type="tip">
If you encounter any lint errors, you can run the following command to automatically fix them.

<NxCommands commands={['run-many --target lint --configuration=fix --all']} />
</Aside>

Your application can now be deployed by running the following command:

<NxCommands commands={['run @dungeon-adventure/infra:deploy infra-sandbox']} />

This deployment will take around 2 minutes to complete.

<Drawer title="Deployment command" trigger="You can also deploy all stacks at once. Click here for more details.">

You can also deploy all stacks contained in the CDK application by running:

<NxCommands commands={['run @dungeon-adventure/infra:deploy --all']} />

This is **not recommended** given that you may choose to seperate out your deployment stages as seperate stacks `i.e. infra-prod`. In this case the `--all` flag will attempt to deploy all stacks which can result in unwanted deployments!

</Drawer>


Once the deployment completes, you should see some outputs similar to the following _(some values have been redacted)_:

```bash
infra-sandbox
infra-sandbox: deploying... [2/2]

 ✅  infra-sandbox

✨  Deployment time: 354s

Outputs:
infra-sandbox.ElectroDbTableTableNameXXX = infra-sandbox-ElectroDbTableXXX-YYY
infra-sandbox.GameApiGameApiUrlXXX = https://xxx.region.amazonaws.com/
infra-sandbox.GameUIDistributionDomainNameXXX = xxx.cloudfront.net
infra-sandbox.StoryApiStoryApiUrlXXX = https://xxx.lambda-url.ap-southeast-2.on.aws/
infra-sandbox.UserIdentityUserIdentityIdentityPoolIdXXX = region:xxx
infra-sandbox.UserIdentityUserIdentityUserPoolIdXXX = region_xxx
```

We can test our API by either:
<ul>
<li>Starting a local instance of the FastApi server and invoke the API's using `curl`.</li>
<li>
<Drawer title="Sigv4 enabled curl" trigger="Calling the deployed API using sigv4 enabled curl directly">
You can either add the following script to your `.bashrc` file (and `source` it) or simply paste the following into the same terminal you wish to run the command in.
```bash
// ~/.bashrc
acurl () {
    REGION=$1
    SERVICE=$2
    shift; shift;
    curl --aws-sigv4 "aws:amz:$REGION:$SERVICE" --user "$(aws configure get aws_access_key_id):$(aws configure get aws_secret_access_key)" -H "X-Amz-Security-Token: $(aws configure get aws_session_token)" "$@"
}
```

Then to make a sigv4 authenticated curl request, you can simply invoke `acurl` like the following examples:

###### API Gateway
```bash
acurl ap-southeast-2 execute-api -X GET https://xxx
```

###### Streaming Lambda function url
```bash
acurl ap-southeast-2 lambda -N -X POST https://xxx
```
</Drawer>
</li>
</ul>

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Local">
  Start your local FastAPI server by running the following command:
    <NxCommands commands={["run dungeon_adventure.story_api:serve"]} />

    Once the FastAPI server is up and running, call it by running the following command:

    ```bash
    curl -N -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/story/generate \
      -d '{"genre":"superhero", "actions":[], "playerName":"UnnamedHero"}' \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json"
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Deployed">
```bash "https://xxx.lambda-url.ap-southeast-2.on.aws/" "ap-southeast-2"
acurl ap-southeast-2 lambda -N -X POST \
  https://xxx.lambda-url.ap-southeast-2.on.aws/story/generate \
  -d '{"genre":"superhero", "actions":[], "playerName":"UnnamedHero"}' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```
    <Aside type="caution">
    Use the CDK deploy output value of `infra-sandbox.StoryApiStoryApiUrlXXX` to replace the highlighted url placeholder and set the region accordingly.
    </Aside>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

If the command executes successfully, you should see a response being streamed similar to:

```
UnnamedHero stood tall, his cape billowing in the wind....
```

Congratulations. You have built and deployed your first API using FastAPI!  🎉🎉🎉

Commit message:

feat(api-connection): tanstack query hooks for connecting react to fastapi
This change implements the open-api#ts-hooks generator, which provides factory methods for options
to provide to tanstack query hooks, in a similar manner to tRPC.

This saves the need for users to manage state themselves, and provides parity with tRPC.

By default, PUT/PATCH/POST/DELETE http requests are considered "mutations" and all others "queries".
This behaviour can be overridden with `x-mutation` and `x-query` vendor extensions however.

Similarly to tRPC, if an operation accepts a `cursor` parameter, we consider this a paginated
operation and generate an `infiniteQueryOptions` method alongside the `queryOptions` method. If an
operation is paginated but has a different pagination parameter name, this can be specified using
the `x-cursor` vendor extension.

We support streaming operations in a similar manner to tRPC, where a streaming query hook will
continually have its data updated as chunks are received. Since a single cache entry is shared by
all pages for an infinite query hook, we cannot stream multiple pages at once for a "paginated
streaming" operation as this risks conflicts/race-conditions. We therefore iterate through the whole
stream for each page in this case.
For mutation operations which return a stream, we don't do anything special and just return the
iterator for the user to use if required.

Fixes #96

docs/src/content/docs/get_started/tutorials/dungeon-game/3.mdx, after:

---
title: AI Dungeon Game
description: A walkthrough of how to build an AI powered dungeon adventure game using the @aws/nx-plugin.
---

import { Aside, Code, FileTree, Steps, Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import Drawer from '../../../../../components/drawer.astro';
import RunGenerator from '../../../../../components/run-generator.astro';
import NxCommands from '../../../../../components/nx-commands.astro';
import InstallCommand from '../../../../../components/install-command.astro';
import dungeonAdventureArchitecturePng from '../../../assets/dungeon-game-architecture.png'
import dungeonAdventureErPng from '../../../assets/dungeon-adventure-er.png'
import baselineWebsitePng from '../../../assets/baseline-website.png'
import baselineGamePng from '../../../assets/baseline-game.png'
import nxGraphPng from '../../../assets/nx-graph.png'
import gameSelectPng from '../../../assets/game-select.png'
import gameConversationPng from '../../../assets/game-conversation.png'

## Module 3: Story API implementation

<Aside type="caution">
Ensure you have granted access to the **Anthropic Claude 3.5 Sonnet v2** model via the steps outlined in [this guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-access-modify.html).
</Aside>

The StoryApi comprises of a single API `generate_story` which given a `Game` and a list of `Action`'s for context, will progress a story. This API will be implemented as a streaming API in Python/FastAPI and will additionally demonstrate how changes can be made to the generated code to be fit for purpose.

### API implementation

To create our API, we first need to install a couple of additional dependencies.

- `boto3` will be used to call Amazon Bedrock;
- `uvicorn` will be used to start our API when used in conjunction with the [Lambda Web Adapter (LWA)](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-web-adapter).
- `copyfiles` is an npm dependency that we will need to support cross-platform copying of files when updating our `bundle` task.

To install these dependencies, run the following commands:

<NxCommands commands={["run dungeon_adventure.story_api:add --args boto3 uvicorn"]} />
<InstallCommand pkg="copyfiles" dev />

Now let's replace the contents of `packages/story_api/story_api/main.py` as follows:

```python
// packages/story_api/story_api/main.py
import json

from boto3 import client
from fastapi.responses import PlainTextResponse, StreamingResponse
from pydantic import BaseModel

from .init import app, lambda_handler

handler = lambda_handler

bedrock = client('bedrock-runtime')

class Action(BaseModel):
    role: str
    content: str

class StoryRequest(BaseModel):
    genre: str
    playerName: str
    actions: list[Action]

async def bedrock_stream(request: StoryRequest):
    messages = [
        {"role": "user", "content": "Continue or create a new story..."}
    ]

    for action in request.actions:
        messages.append({"role": action.role, "content": action.content})

    response = bedrock.invoke_model_with_response_stream(
        modelId='anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0',
        body=json.dumps({
            "system":f"""
            You are running an AI text adventure game in the {request.genre} genre.
            Player: {request.playerName}. Return less than 200 characters of text.
            """,
            "messages": messages,
            "max_tokens": 1000,
            "temperature": 0.7,
            "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31"
        })
    )

    stream = response.get('body')
    if stream:
        for event in stream:
            chunk = event.get('chunk')
            if chunk:
                message = json.loads(chunk.get("bytes").decode())
                if message['type'] == "content_block_delta":
                    yield message['delta']['text'] or ""
                elif message['type'] == "message_stop":
                    yield "\n"

@app.post("/story/generate",
          openapi_extra={'x-streaming': True, 'x-query': True},
          response_class=PlainTextResponse)
def generate_story(request: StoryRequest) -> str:
    return StreamingResponse(bedrock_stream(request), media_type="text/plain")
```

Analyzing the code above:

- We use the `x-streaming` setting to indicate that this is a streaming API when we eventually generate our client SDK. This will allow us to consume this API in a streaming manner whilst maintaining type-safety!
- We use the `x-query` setting to indicate that while this is a POST request, we will treat it as a `query` instead of a `mutation`, allowing us to take full advantage of TanStack Query managing our streaming state.
- Our API simply returns a stream of text as defined by both the `media_type="text/plain"` and the `response_class=PlainTextResponse`

### Infrastructure

The [Infrastructure we set up previously](/nx-plugin-for-aws/get_started/tutorials/dungeon-game/1#game-ui-infrastructure) assumes that all APIs have an API Gateway integrating with a Lambda. For our `story_api` we actually don't want to use API Gateway as this does not support streaming repsonses. Instead, we will use a [Lambda Function URL configured with response streaming](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-response-streaming.html).

To support this, we are going to first update our CDK constructs as follows:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="http-api.ts">
```typescript
// packages/common/constructs/src/core/http-api.ts
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import { CfnOutput, Duration, Stack } from 'aws-cdk-lib';
import {
  CorsHttpMethod,
  HttpApi as _HttpApi,
  HttpMethod,
  IHttpRouteAuthorizer,
} from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2';
import { HttpLambdaIntegration } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2-integrations';
import {
  Code,
  Function,
  FunctionUrl,
  FunctionUrlAuthType,
  InvokeMode,
  LayerVersion,
  Runtime,
  Tracing,
} from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda';
import { Grant, IGrantable } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-iam';
import { RuntimeConfig } from './runtime-config.js';

export interface HttpApiProps {
  readonly apiName: string;
  readonly handler: string;
  readonly handlerFilePath: string;
  readonly runtime: Runtime;
  readonly defaultAuthorizer: IHttpRouteAuthorizer;
  readonly apiType?: 'api-gateway' | 'function-url-streaming';
  readonly allowedOrigins?: string[];
}

export class HttpApi extends Construct {
  public readonly api?: _HttpApi;
  public readonly routerFunctionUrl?: FunctionUrl;
  public readonly routerFunction: Function;

  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string, props: HttpApiProps) {
    super(scope, id);

    this.routerFunction = new Function(this, `${id}Handler`, {
      timeout: Duration.seconds(30),
      runtime: props.runtime,
      handler: props.handler,
      code: Code.fromAsset(props.handlerFilePath),
      tracing: Tracing.ACTIVE,
      environment: {
        AWS_CONNECTION_REUSE_ENABLED: '1',
      },
    });

    let apiUrl;
    if (props.apiType === 'function-url-streaming') {
      const stack = Stack.of(this);
      this.routerFunction.addLayers(
        LayerVersion.fromLayerVersionArn(
          this,
          'LWALayer',
          `arn:aws:lambda:${stack.region}:753240598075:layer:LambdaAdapterLayerX86:24`,
        ),
      );
      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment('PORT', '8000');
      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
        'AWS_LWA_INVOKE_MODE',
        'response_stream',
      );
      this.routerFunction.addEnvironment(
        'AWS_LAMBDA_EXEC_WRAPPER',
        '/opt/bootstrap',
      );
      this.routerFunctionUrl = this.routerFunction.addFunctionUrl({
        authType: FunctionUrlAuthType.AWS_IAM,
        invokeMode: InvokeMode.RESPONSE_STREAM,
        cors: {
          allowedOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
          allowedHeaders: [
            'authorization',
            'content-type',
            'x-amz-content-sha256',
            'x-amz-date',
            'x-amz-security-token',
          ],
        },
      });
      apiUrl = this.routerFunctionUrl.url;
    } else {
      this.api = new _HttpApi(this, id, {
        corsPreflight: {
          allowOrigins: props.allowedOrigins ?? ['*'],
          allowMethods: [CorsHttpMethod.ANY],
          allowHeaders: [
            'authorization',
            'content-type',
            'x-amz-content-sha256',
            'x-amz-date',
            'x-amz-security-token',
          ],
        },
        defaultAuthorizer: props.defaultAuthorizer,
      });

      this.api.addRoutes({
        path: '/{proxy+}',
        methods: [
          HttpMethod.GET,
          HttpMethod.DELETE,
          HttpMethod.POST,
          HttpMethod.PUT,
          HttpMethod.PATCH,
          HttpMethod.HEAD,
        ],
        integration: new HttpLambdaIntegration(
          'RouterIntegration',
          this.routerFunction,
        ),
      });
      apiUrl = this.api.url;
    }

    new CfnOutput(this, `${props.apiName}Url`, { value: apiUrl! });

    RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis = {
      ...RuntimeConfig.ensure(this).config.httpApis!,
      [props.apiName]: apiUrl,
    };
  }

  public grantInvokeAccess(grantee: IGrantable) {
    if (this.api) {
      Grant.addToPrincipal({
        grantee,
        actions: ['execute-api:Invoke'],
        resourceArns: [this.api.arnForExecuteApi('*', '/*', '*')],
      });
    } else if (this.routerFunction) {
      Grant.addToPrincipal({
        grantee,
        actions: ['lambda:InvokeFunctionUrl'],
        resourceArns: [this.routerFunction.functionArn],
        conditions: {
          StringEquals: {
            'lambda:FunctionUrlAuthType': 'AWS_IAM',
          },
        },
      });
    }
  }
}
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="story-api.ts">
```diff lang="typescript"
// packages/common/constructs/src/app/http-apis/story-api.ts
import { Construct } from 'constructs';
import * as url from 'url';
import { HttpApi } from '../../core/http-api.js';
import { HttpIamAuthorizer } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-apigatewayv2-authorizers';
import { Runtime } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-lambda';
+import { Effect, PolicyStatement } from 'aws-cdk-lib/aws-iam';

export class StoryApi extends HttpApi {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string) {
    super(scope, id, {
      defaultAuthorizer: new HttpIamAuthorizer(),
      apiName: 'StoryApi',
      runtime: Runtime.PYTHON_3_12,
-      handler: 'story_api.main.handler',
+      apiType: 'function-url-streaming',
+      handler: 'run.sh',
      handlerFilePath: url.fileURLToPath(
        new URL(
          '../../../../../../dist/packages/story_api/bundle',
          import.meta.url,
        ),
      ),
    });
+
+    this.routerFunction.addToRolePolicy(
+      new PolicyStatement({
+        effect: Effect.ALLOW,
+        actions: ['bedrock:InvokeModelWithResponseStream'],
+        resources: [
+          'arn:aws:bedrock:*::foundation-model/anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0',
+        ],
+      }),
+    );
  }
}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now we will update the `story_api` to support the [Lambda Web Adapter](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-web-adapter) deployment.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="run.sh">
```bash
// packages/story_api/run.sh
#!/bin/bash

PATH=$PATH:$LAMBDA_TASK_ROOT/bin \
    PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/opt/python:$LAMBDA_RUNTIME_DIR \
    exec python -m uvicorn --port=$PORT story_api.main:app
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="project.json">
```diff lang="json"
// packages/story_api/project.json
{
  "name": "dungeon_adventure.story_api",
  "$schema": "../../node_modules/nx/schemas/project-schema.json",
  "projectType": "application",
  "sourceRoot": "packages/story_api/story_api",
  "targets": {
    ...
    "bundle": {
      "cache": true,
      "executor": "nx:run-commands",
      "outputs": ["{workspaceRoot}/dist/packages/story_api/bundle"],
      "options": {
        "commands": [
          "uv export --frozen --no-dev --no-editable --project story_api -o dist/packages/story_api/bundle/requirements.txt",
          "uv pip install -n --no-installer-metadata --no-compile-bytecode --python-platform x86_64-manylinux2014 --python `uv python pin` --target dist/packages/story_api/bundle -r dist/packages/story_api/bundle/requirements.txt",
+          "copyfiles -f packages/story_api/run.sh dist/packages/story_api/bundle"
        ],
        "parallel": false
      },
      "dependsOn": ["compile"]
    },
    ...
  }
}
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Deployment and testing

First, lets build the codebase:

<NxCommands commands={['run-many --target build --all']} />

<Aside type="tip">
If you encounter any lint errors, you can run the following command to automatically fix them.

<NxCommands commands={['run-many --target lint --configuration=fix --all']} />
</Aside>

Your application can now be deployed by running the following command:

<NxCommands commands={['run @dungeon-adventure/infra:deploy infra-sandbox']} />

This deployment will take around 2 minutes to complete.

<Drawer title="Deployment command" trigger="You can also deploy all stacks at once. Click here for more details.">

You can also deploy all stacks contained in the CDK application by running:

<NxCommands commands={['run @dungeon-adventure/infra:deploy --all']} />

This is **not recommended** given that you may choose to seperate out your deployment stages as seperate stacks `i.e. infra-prod`. In this case the `--all` flag will attempt to deploy all stacks which can result in unwanted deployments!

</Drawer>


Once the deployment completes, you should see some outputs similar to the following _(some values have been redacted)_:

```bash
infra-sandbox
infra-sandbox: deploying... [2/2]

 ✅  infra-sandbox

✨  Deployment time: 354s

Outputs:
infra-sandbox.ElectroDbTableTableNameXXX = infra-sandbox-ElectroDbTableXXX-YYY
infra-sandbox.GameApiGameApiUrlXXX = https://xxx.region.amazonaws.com/
infra-sandbox.GameUIDistributionDomainNameXXX = xxx.cloudfront.net
infra-sandbox.StoryApiStoryApiUrlXXX = https://xxx.lambda-url.ap-southeast-2.on.aws/
infra-sandbox.UserIdentityUserIdentityIdentityPoolIdXXX = region:xxx
infra-sandbox.UserIdentityUserIdentityUserPoolIdXXX = region_xxx
```

We can test our API by either:
<ul>
<li>Starting a local instance of the FastApi server and invoke the API's using `curl`.</li>
<li>
<Drawer title="Sigv4 enabled curl" trigger="Calling the deployed API using sigv4 enabled curl directly">
You can either add the following script to your `.bashrc` file (and `source` it) or simply paste the following into the same terminal you wish to run the command in.
```bash
// ~/.bashrc
acurl () {
    REGION=$1
    SERVICE=$2
    shift; shift;
    curl --aws-sigv4 "aws:amz:$REGION:$SERVICE" --user "$(aws configure get aws_access_key_id):$(aws configure get aws_secret_access_key)" -H "X-Amz-Security-Token: $(aws configure get aws_session_token)" "$@"
}
```

Then to make a sigv4 authenticated curl request, you can simply invoke `acurl` like the following examples:

###### API Gateway
```bash
acurl ap-southeast-2 execute-api -X GET https://xxx
```

###### Streaming Lambda function url
```bash
acurl ap-southeast-2 lambda -N -X POST https://xxx
```
</Drawer>
</li>
</ul>

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Local">
  Start your local FastAPI server by running the following command:
    <NxCommands commands={["run dungeon_adventure.story_api:serve"]} />

    Once the FastAPI server is up and running, call it by running the following command:

    ```bash
    curl -N -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/story/generate \
      -d '{"genre":"superhero", "actions":[], "playerName":"UnnamedHero"}' \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json"
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Deployed">
```bash "https://xxx.lambda-url.ap-southeast-2.on.aws/" "ap-southeast-2"
acurl ap-southeast-2 lambda -N -X POST \
  https://xxx.lambda-url.ap-southeast-2.on.aws/story/generate \
  -d '{"genre":"superhero", "actions":[], "playerName":"UnnamedHero"}' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"
```
    <Aside type="caution">
    Use the CDK deploy output value of `infra-sandbox.StoryApiStoryApiUrlXXX` to replace the highlighted url placeholder and set the region accordingly.
    </Aside>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

If the command executes successfully, you should see a response being streamed similar to:

```
UnnamedHero stood tall, his cape billowing in the wind....
```

Congratulations. You have built and deployed your first API using FastAPI!  🎉🎉🎉
