docs/src/content/docs/get_started/tutorials/dungeon-game/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: AI Dungeon Game
description: A walkthrough of how to build an AI powered dungeon adventure game using the @aws/nx-plugin.
---

import { Aside, Code, FileTree, Steps, Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import Drawer from '../../../../../components/drawer.astro';
import RunGenerator from '../../../../../components/run-generator.astro';
import NxCommands from '../../../../../components/nx-commands.astro';
import InstallCommand from '../../../../../components/install-command.astro';
import dungeonAdventureArchitecturePng from '../../../assets/dungeon-game-architecture.png'
import dungeonAdventureErPng from '../../../assets/dungeon-adventure-er.png'
import baselineWebsitePng from '../../../assets/baseline-website.png'
import baselineGamePng from '../../../assets/baseline-game.png'
import nxGraphPng from '../../../assets/nx-graph.png'
import gameSelectPng from '../../../assets/game-select.png'
import gameConversationPng from '../../../assets/game-conversation.png'

## Overview

You will build an AI powered dungeon adventure game during this tutorial. This tutorial does not assume any existing knowledge of the `@aws/nx-plugin` or related technologies. The techniques you'll learn in this tutorial are fundamental to building any `@aws/nx-plugin` based application, and fully understanding it will give you a deep understanding of the `@aws/nx-plugin` and a basic understanding of how to use [NX](https://nx.dev/).

<Aside>This tutorial is designed for people who prefer to learn by doing and want to quickly try making something tangible. If you prefer learning each concept step by step, refer to the individual component Guides</Aside>

Users who complete this tutorial can expect to walk away with the knowledge to:

- use the `@aws/nx-plugin` to create new applications
- use NX to manage/build their codebase
- build APIs using both tRPC and FastAPI
- use Tanstack router to create new pages
- use Tanstack query to call backend APIs
- make modifications to generated code to be fit for purpose
- create and deploy CDK infrastructure

## What are you building?

In this tutorial, you'll build an AI powered dungeon adventure game with `@aws/nx-plugin`.

You can see what it will look like when you're finished here:

<Image src={gameSelectPng} alt="game-select.png" width="500" height="400" />
<div style="margin-top: -100px; margin-left: 100px;">
<Image src={gameConversationPng} alt="game-conversation.png" width="500" height="400" />
</div>

### Components of the application

The AI powered dungeon adventure game will be built using the following component architecture:

<Image class="white-bg" src={dungeonAdventureArchitecturePng} alt="dungeon-game-architecture.png" width="800" height="600" />

- tRPC API which uses ElectroDB/DynamoDB from managing the game state
- Python/FastAPI Lambda function with streaming responses for story generation (powered by Bedrock)
- React/Vite frontend website utilising:
  - Amazon Cognito/Identity Pools for secure API calls
  - Tanstack router which supports type-safe file based routing
  - Generated SDKs for calling the Game and Story APIs (leveraging Tanstack query)
- CDK infrastructure to deploy the application

## Prerequisites

The following global dependencies are needed before proceeding:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
- [Node >= 22](https://nodejs.org/en/download) (We recommend using something like [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to manage your node versions)
  - verify by running `node --version`
- [PNPM >= 10](https://pnpm.io/installation#using-npm) (you can also just use npm/yarn/bun if you prefer, however this tutorial will use `pnpm`)
  - verify by running `pnpm --version`
- [UV >= 0.5.29](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/)
  1. install Python 3.12 by running: `uv python install 3.12.0`
  2. verify with `uv python list --only-installed`
- [AWS SDK with credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access.html) configured to your target AWS account (where your application will be deployed)
  - Ensure your AWS account has enabled access to the Anthropic Claude 2.5 v2 model within Bedrock for your target region
- If you are using VSCode, install the [Nx Console VSCode Plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=nrwl.angular-console) if you haven't already.

Commit message:

documentation fixes and improvements (#91)
* docs: fix install commands, resolve doc bugs, add deployment times, and add bun commands

---------

Co-authored-by: Adrian Dimech <dimecha@amazon.com>

docs/src/content/docs/get_started/tutorials/dungeon-game/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: AI Dungeon Game
description: A walkthrough of how to build an AI powered dungeon adventure game using the @aws/nx-plugin.
---

import { Aside, Code, FileTree, Steps, Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import Drawer from '../../../../../components/drawer.astro';
import RunGenerator from '../../../../../components/run-generator.astro';
import NxCommands from '../../../../../components/nx-commands.astro';
import InstallCommand from '../../../../../components/install-command.astro';
import dungeonAdventureArchitecturePng from '../../../assets/dungeon-game-architecture.png'
import dungeonAdventureErPng from '../../../assets/dungeon-adventure-er.png'
import baselineWebsitePng from '../../../assets/baseline-website.png'
import baselineGamePng from '../../../assets/baseline-game.png'
import nxGraphPng from '../../../assets/nx-graph.png'
import gameSelectPng from '../../../assets/game-select.png'
import gameConversationPng from '../../../assets/game-conversation.png'

## Overview

You will build an AI powered dungeon adventure game during this tutorial. This tutorial does not assume any existing knowledge of the `@aws/nx-plugin` or related technologies. The techniques you'll learn in this tutorial are fundamental to building any `@aws/nx-plugin` based application, and fully understanding it will give you a deep understanding of the `@aws/nx-plugin` and a basic understanding of how to use [NX](https://nx.dev/).

<Aside>This tutorial is designed for people who prefer to learn by doing and want to quickly try making something tangible. If you prefer learning each concept step by step, refer to the individual component Guides</Aside>

Users who complete this tutorial can expect to walk away with the knowledge to:

- use the `@aws/nx-plugin` to create new applications
- use NX to manage/build their codebase
- build APIs using both tRPC and FastAPI
- use Tanstack router to create new pages
- use Tanstack query to call backend APIs
- make modifications to generated code to be fit for purpose
- create and deploy CDK infrastructure

## What are you building?

In this tutorial, you'll build an AI powered dungeon adventure game with `@aws/nx-plugin`.

You can see what it will look like when you're finished here:

<Image src={gameSelectPng} alt="game-select.png" width="500" height="400" />
<div style="margin-top: -100px; margin-left: 100px;">
<Image src={gameConversationPng} alt="game-conversation.png" width="500" height="400" />
</div>

### Components of the application

The AI powered dungeon adventure game will be built using the following component architecture:

<Image class="white-bg" src={dungeonAdventureArchitecturePng} alt="dungeon-game-architecture.png" width="800" height="600" />

- [tRPC](https://trpc.io/) API which uses [ElectroDB](https://electrodb.dev/)/[DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/) for managing the game state
- Python/[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) Lambda function with streaming responses for story generation (powered by [Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/))
- React/Vite frontend website utilising:
  - Amazon Cognito/Identity Pools for secure API calls
  - [Tanstack router](https://tanstack.com/router/latest) which supports type-safe file based routing
  - Generated SDKs for calling the Game and Story APIs (leveraging [Tanstack query](https://tanstack.com/query/latest))
- [CDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/home.html) infrastructure to deploy the application

## Prerequisites

The following global dependencies are needed before proceeding:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
- [Node >= 22](https://nodejs.org/en/download) (We recommend using something like [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to manage your node versions)
  - verify by running `node --version`
- [PNPM >= 10](https://pnpm.io/installation#using-npm) (you can also use [Yarn >= 4](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install), [Bun >= 1](https://bun.sh/docs/installation), or [NPM >= 10](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/getting-started/an-introduction-to-the-npm-package-manager) if you prefer)
  - verify by running `pnpm --version`, `yarn --version`, `bun --version` or `npm --version`
- [UV >= 0.5.29](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/)
  1. install Python 3.12 by running: `uv python install 3.12.0`
  2. verify with `uv python list --only-installed`
- [AWS SDK with credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/access.html) configured to your target AWS account (where your application will be deployed)
  - Ensure your AWS account has enabled access to the Anthropic Claude 3.5 Sonnet v2 model within Bedrock for your target region via the steps outlined in [this guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-access-modify.html).
- If you are using VSCode, install the [Nx Console VSCode Plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=nrwl.angular-console) if you haven't already.
